feature/2_extract-coverage-from-jacoco-report (#3)
exasol/quality-summarizer-maven-plugin: doc/design.md

# Software Design Document (SDD) — Quality Summarizer Maven Plugin

## Introduction and Goals

The system is designed to work as a Maven Plugin. It reads the [JaCoCo](https://www.jacoco.org/) report XML file in the verification phase and writes the `metrics.json` file. The purpose of the system is to extract metrics from the project and provide them in a straightforward and easily extensible manner.

## Constraints

> The system will be implemented in Java, as a [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The system is implemented in Java, as a [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) plugin.
```

## Context and Scope

The system is a standalone plugin that interacts with the project's build system via Maven and the test coverage report generated by JaCoCo.

### Out-of-scope

The produced summary is a single file local to the build result directory. How that file is post-processed to ingest it into a central quality database is explicitly _outside the scope_ of this document.

In order to be picked up by the repository crawler, the file must be available as artifact in the CI build on GitHub. This is a separate step and there are existing GitHub actions to upload artifacts. The Maven plugin does not need to know or even should know that it is running inside a GitHub action.

## Solution Strategy

### The Minimum Viable Product

For the Minimum Viable Product (MVP), only the overall path coverage will be extracted from JaCoCo's report XML. This value will be written into a `metrics.json` file that can be easily extended in the future to include more metrics.

> We also decided to take the metrics directly form the build instead of Sonar, which serves as a quality measurement aggregator in the beginning. This spares us the effort of authentication, storing credentials, dealing with network issues and will overall be faster. Once we reach the point where we need other metrics like Sonar ratings, we will need to revise that strategy. We are clear about that fact, but intentionally chose the option with the lowest complexity until we need more than the path coverage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also decided to take the metrics directly from the build instead of Sonar, which serves as a quality measurement aggregator in the beginning. This spares us the effort of authentication, storing credentials, dealing with network issues and will overall be faster. Once we reach the point where we need other metrics like Sonar ratings, we will need to revise that strategy. We are clear about that fact, but intentionally chose the option with the lowest complexity until we need more than the path coverage.
```

## Building Block View

### Maven Plugin
`dsn~maven-plugin~1`

The summarizer is a Maven plugin.

Rationale:

Maven is a well-established build tool and can both run locally and in CI builds.

Covers:

* `req~summarizer-must-run-in-a-local-maven-build~1`
* `req~summarizer-must-run-in-a-git-hub-ci-build~1`

Needs: impl, itest

### OS Compatibility
`dsn~os-compatibility~1`

The summarizer is written in Java to run under Linux.

Comment:

Note that we only test on Linux in order to safe resources. We assume Windows and MacOS compatibility, but until that is required in our CI builds, we are not investing time for verification.

Needs: impl, itest

## Runtime View

### Extraction

#### Executed During 'Verify' Phase
`dsn~executed-during-verify-phase~1`

The summarizer hooks into Maven's `verify` lifecycle phase.

> Needs: impl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Needs: impl, itest
```
It should be easy to add an integration test for this.

#### Extracting Code Coverage From JaCoCo Report

> `dsn~extracting-code-coverage-from-ja-co-co-report~1`

Reviewer: `ja-co-co` is hard to read. Would it be OK to rename this to `jacoco`?
